\input texinfo
@c Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Vincent Launchbury
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
@c with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
@c 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
@c
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c This file is hand-written, but is used to generate:
@c          - Info documentation for the info(1) reader
@c          - HTML hyperlinked/single-page documentation
@c          - PDF documentation
@c          - Postscript documentation
@c          - DVI documentation
@c
@c The manpage `matrixgl.1' is separate from this, and is also hand-written.
@c If you update something here, check the manpage as well.
@c
@c There are a few things to note about this file:
@c    1) It can be much more detailed than the manpage, feel free to add new
@c       sections, chapters etc. Just keep things organized.
@c    2) Make good use of @cindex so people can quickly find things
@c    3) Use @node, it is essential for HTML/info navigation
@c    4) For further info, the texinfo manual is a good resource:
@c
@c          http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/
@c
@setfilename matrixgl.info
@settitle matrixgl - 3D Matrix Screensaver


@dircategory matrixgl - 3D Matrix Screensaver
@direntry
* matrixgl: (matrixgl). A 3D Matrix Screensaver
@end direntry

@c automake will notice this line and generate the file for us
@include version.texi

@titlepage
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{matrixgl - 3D Matrix Screensaver}
@page
@c Push copyright notice to the bottom of the page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
This manual is for matrixgl @value{VERSION}, released on @value{UPDATED}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Vincent Launchbury


You can redistribute and/or modify this manual under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Introduction,,

@menu
* Introduction::     A brief summary and history of matrixgl
* Options::          A detailed description of the available options
* Keys::             A summary of in-screensaver options
* Copyright::        Authors and copyright information
* Index::            This index has two entries.
@end menu

@contents

@node    Introduction, Options, Top, Top
@cindex  Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@section What is MatrixGL?
Matrixgl is a 3D matrix screensaver based on the digital rain scenes from
@emph{The Matrix Reloaded}. It features the green scrolling text (or digital
rain) that wraps around 3D representations of different characters from the
series.

Matrixgl is cross-platform; it runs on GNU/Linux, BSD, Mac OSX and Windows. For
Windows, we provide an installer and configuration program, due to the
difficulty of compiling from source on that platform. For Mac OSX, there is a
separate Objective-C port; the C version compiles and runs on OSX, but the
Objective-C screensaver API must be used to integrate with the OSX screensaver
framework. For GNU/Linux, BSD and other Unix-like platforms, matrixgl can be
easily compiled from source to run as a standalone screensaver, or via
XScreenSaver.

@cindex  History
@section History
Matrixgl was written in 2003 by Russian brothers Alexander and Eugene Zolotov.
It begun as a cross-platform screensaver loosely based on the digital rain
scenes from @emph{The Matrix Reloaded}, the second film in the Matrix trilogy.
It was among the first of the Matrix insipired screensavers to have a 3D effect
of the digital rain wrapping around the faces of characters from the films.

In early 2008, Vincent Launchbury took over the maintainance of matrixgl,
implementing widescreen support, switching to the modern GNU build system,
adding XScreenSaver support, fixing several bugs and implementing several new
options.

@node    Options, Keys, Introduction, Top
@cindex  Options
@chapter Options

@cindex Command Line Options
@section Command Line Options
@cindex Notes on Specifying Options
@subsection Notes on Specifying Options
Matrixgl parses command line options using the standard getopt library; it
behaves like most other command line tools. Most options have short options
(single character flags) as well as long options. Mandatory arguments to long
options are mandatory for short options too. In addition, long options may be
passed with a single dash.

When running via XScreenSaver, you can use `xscreensaver-demo > Matrixgl >
Settings > Advanced' to manually set options that aren't presented in the
configuration dialog.

@subsection List of Options
@table @option

@cindex --color
@cindex Font color
@item -C --color=COL
Set the color of the falling text. COL must be `green', `red' or `blue'. The
reason it is limited to these colors is that the font data specifies values for
only one component of each RGB pixel. The component can be interpreted as being
either red, green or blue, with the other components set to zero.

@cindex Credits
@cindex --credits
@item -c --credits
Specify this option to show the credit screens when the screensaver is first
started. Note that this option has no effect if used with @code{--static}, as
that flag disables 3D effects.

The first credit screen shows KNOPPIX.RU, the website of the original authors
of matrixgl. The second screen shows DoubleCreations, a moniker of the current
maintainer.

@cindex Fullscreen
@cindex --fullscreen
@item -F --fs --fullscreen
Run in proper fullscreen mode, bypassing the window manager to draw a real
fullscreen window and take full keyboard control. Note that this mode is
incompatible with XScreenSaver, where the @code{--root} option should be used
instead.

@cindex Frames Per Second
@cindex FPS
@cindex --fps
@item -f --fps[=SEC]
Print FPS (frames per second) statistics to the terminal every SEC seconds. SEC
is clamped to a range of [1,20] and defaults to 1 if not specified. Note that
startup delays will likely cause the first few FPS stats to to be lower than
usual.

@cindex Usage Summary
@cindex --help
@item -h --help
Print a help message and usage summary to the terminal, and then exit.

@cindex Frame Limiting
@cindex --limit
@item -l --limit=LIM
Limit the framerate to LIM fps, or as close to it as possible. The default
frame limit is 32fps, and LIM is clamped to the range [1,200]. Frame limiting
works by constantly monitoring the frame rate, and periodically adjusting a
per-frame sleep value (which is of course zero if the hardware can't keep up.)

@cindex Static Mode
@cindex --static
@item -s --static
Enable static mode, which disables 3D effects such as the 3D credits and the
wrapping of the scrolling text (or digital rain) around characters from
@emph{The Matrix}.

@cindex Version
@cindex --version
@item -v --version
Print version and author information to the terminal, and then exit.

@cindex Allow Running as root
@cindex --allow-root
@item --allow-root
Allow matrixgl to be run by the root user, if you really want to do so.
Disabled by default as a safeguard.

@cindex Attach to the Root Window
@cindex --root
@item --root
Attach to the root window for XScreenSaver. This option is set by default when
running via XScreenSaver (see xscreensaver-demo > Matrixgl > Settings >
Advanced.)

When you run XScreenSaver, it creates a fullscreen "root" window for you. This
option simply makes matrixgl draw to that window instead of creating a full
screen window itself. In other words, this is required for XScreenSaver.

@cindex Window ID
@cindex --window-id
@item --window-id=ID
Take the width and height dimensions from the window specified by the X window
ID. XScreenSaver passes this option automatically when it runs matrixgl in a
preview window. You shouldn't ever need to specify this option yourself, it
merely ensures that we render correctly in the XScreenSaver preview pane.

@end table

@node Keys, Copyright, Options, Top
@cindex In-Screensaver Options
@cindex Keys
@section In-Screensaver Options
@subsection Notes on In-Screensaver Keys
Several options for matrixgl can be changed in-screensaver by pressing keys
while the screensaver is running. These work both in windowed mode and in full
screen mode.

Note: when matrixgl is run under XScreenSaver, keyboard input goes directly to
XScreenSaver, which stops the screensaver when a key is pressed. Therefore,
these keys only apply when you run matrixgl from a terminal, or when using a
different screensaver manager (like the ones shipped with KDE or GNOME.)

@subsection List of Keys
@table @option
@item c
View the credit screens. Note that static mode will be turned off if
applicable.

@item s
Toggle static mode on and off. Static mode disables 3D effects including the
wrapping of scrolling text (or digital rain) around characters from @emph{The
Matrix}.

@item n
Skip to the next 3D character image, then continue as normal. This is useful if
you want to quickly view all the different images. Note that this key has no
effect if static mode is enabled (as that mode disables 3D images.)

@item p
Pause or unpause the screensaver, stopping the scrolling text and the
transitioning of the 3D images.

@item q
Quit the screensaver.

@end table

@node    Copyright, Index, Keys, Top
@cindex  Copyright
@chapter Copyright
Matrixgl @value{VERSION} is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.@*@*
Copyright @copyright{} 2003 Alexander Zolotov, Eugene Zolotov@*
Copyright @copyright{} 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Vincent
Launchbury

@node    Index, , Copyright, Top
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@bye
