.ig

Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Vincent Launchbury

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  US

----------------------------------------------------

This file is hand-written, and follows the regular conventions of section 1 man
pages. When making additions, the surrounding code should give you a good idea
of how to do things. For further info, the groff manual is a good resource:

   http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/manual/

Note that this file is completely separate from the Texinfo file matrixgl.texi,
which should also be kept up-to-date. More detailed documentation belongs in
the Texinfo file, not this manpage.

..
.TH MATRIXGL "1" "June 5th, 2014" "matrixgl 2.3.2" "Matrixgl - The 3D Matrix Screensaver"

.SH NAME
matrixgl - 3D matrix screensaver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B matrixgl [\fI\-CcFfhlsv\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Matrixgl is a 3D matrix screensaver based on The Matrix Reloaded. It features
the green scrolling text (or digital rain), that wraps around 3D
representations of different characters from the series.
.P
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP 5
\-C \-\-color=COL
Set color of the falling text. COL must be `green', `red' or `blue'.
.TP
\-c \-\-credits
Show the credits on startup. This option will have no effect if used with \-\-static.
.TP
\-F \-\-fs \-\-fullscreen
Run in fullscreen, when run from a terminal. Do not use with xscreensaver (see
\-root)
.TP
\-f \-\-fps[=SEC]
Print FPS stats to the terminal every SEC seconds. SEC is clamped to the range
[1,20] and defaults to 2 if not given. Note that the first few stats may be
inaccurate due to startup delays.
.TP
\-h \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\-i \-\-intensity=NUM
Set the intensity of the digital rain to NUM. The default is 1, and NUM is
clamped to the range [1,50]. The intensity effects the number of white
nodes, the number of random character changes and the general speed of the
rain.
.TP
\-l \-\-limit=LIM
Limit the framerate to LIM fps, or as close to it as possible. The default is
32fps, and LIM is clamped to the range [1,200].
.TP
\-s \-\-static
Enable static mode, which disables the display of 3D images. This mimics the
style of the scrolling text from the original film.
.TP
\-v \-\-version
Output version and author information and exit.
.TP
\-\-root
Attach to the root window for xscreensaver. This option is set by default
(see xscreensaver\-demo > Matrixgl > Settings > Advanced.)
.P
Note: Long options may be passed with a single dash.

.SH KEYS
The following keys can be used while in the screensaver**
.TP 5
c
View \fIc\fRredits
.TP
s
Toggle \fIs\fRtatic mode (3D)
.TP
n
Show \fIn\fRext image
.TP
p
\fIP\fRause screensaver
.TP
q
\fIQ\fRuit screensaver
.P
**Note: Under xscreensaver, matrixgl will be killed before it receives input.
Therefore, these keys only apply when you run matrixgl from a terminal, or when
using a different screensaver manager (like the ones shipped with KDE or GNOME.)

.SH AUTHORS
Written by  Alexander Zolotov  <nightradio@gmail.com> 2003
      and   Eugene Zolotov     <sentinel@knoppix.ru> 2003
.br
Modified by Vincent Launchbury <vincent@doublecreations.com> 2008\-2014

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report matrixgl bugs to <vincent@doublecreations.com>
.br
Bugs may also be reported using the sourceforge tracker system.
.P
We have a script that generates a bug report for you. See README for details.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2003 Alexander Zolotov, Eugene Zolotov
.br
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Vincent Launchbury
.P
License: GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Project summary:  <http://www.sf.net/projects/matrixgl/>.
.br
Project Website:  <http://www.doublecreations.com/projects/matrixgl/>.
.br
Original Project: <http://knoppix.ru/matrixgl.shtml#english>.
